# ddiff
The big-data opportunity is compelling in complex business environments experiencing an explosion in the types and volumes of available data. In the health-care and pharmaceutical industries, data growth is generated from several sources, including the R&D process, retailers, patients, caregivers and etc. Effectively utilizing these data will help pharmaceutical companies better identify new potential drug candidates and develop them into effective, approved and reimbursed medicines more quickly. As a result, companies are hiring analytics teams to serve business units, and even as data became more crucial to decision-making and product roadmaps. However, the teams in charge of data pipelines were treated more like plumbers and less like partners. With better tooling, more diverse roles, and a clearer understanding of data’s full potential, most forward-thinking teams are adopting a new paradigm: data as a product(`DaaP`). In the DaaP model, company data is viewed as a product, and the data team’s role is to provide that data to the company in ways that facilitate good decision-making and application building. Some important characteristics of this model:

- Data has an SLA (figuratively) from the entire data team, not just data engineering
- Data flow is unidirectional, from the data team to the company
- Domain expertise has limited benefits for data team members

While each of these definitions has its own nuance, there are clearly some key takeaways: treating data as a product involves serving internal “customers” (data consumers), enabling decision-making and other key functions, and applying standards of rigor like SLAs. The key step is to apply a data as a product mindset is how you build, monitor, and measure data products. So when it comes to building pipelines and systems, use the same proven processes as you would with production software, like creating scope documents and breaking projects down into sprints. One of key sprints is the ability to track the difference of data product over time. In order to achieve this goal, we build a custom 'ddiff' function to tackle this problem. 
